---
subject: Free WeFee
---

The other week I was spending some time with my grandparents &mdash; because
I am a very good grandson (and very handsome, my grandmother tells me). We
were eating lunch at Panera Bread and my lovely grandmother asked me a
simple question.

"Matt," she said, "what is **we fee**?"

I was puzzled. I asked her what she was talking about.

She pointed to a sign near the door.

> Dine in. Log on. Free WiFi.

Of course, she was asking what "WiFi" was. When someone doesn't even really
understand computers (much less wireless internet) seeing a sign for free
WiFi must feel incredibly foreign.

---

This mildly humorous incident made me step back and remember that not everyone
is technical and I need to understand my audience. It is easy for us to use 
technical terms that the user might not understand.

My first professional project was a web app for "advanced users". They were 
engineers and technicians that worked on aircraft engines. They knew fluid
dynamics and how to repair military-grade helicopter turbines.

But you know what a mechanical engineer with a degree from MIT didn't know much
about? Browser cookies. Or unexpected exceptions. Or form resubmission.

And yet, this kind of jargon was littered throughout the app. It was in
error messages, help pages, and support discussions.

We sometimes think of "non-technical users" as some dumb caveman who has never 
seen a magical computer terminal before. Obviously, this is wrong.

And just because someone has an engineering degree, doesn't mean they 
understand why Internet Explorer is prompting them to select the correct Signed 
Certificate.

---

Not everyone is technical. And even "technical" people often don't know or use
the same terminology as the folks that make software. Be sensitive to how not
understanding a piece of jargon might make them feel. Make a concerted effort
to put yourself in the shoes of your users.

Because your end-user might just be someone's grandma.
